Head of the <a href = "https://www.i2bc.paris-saclay.fr/nuclear-dynamics-and-repetitive-dna-in-tissue-homeostasis/" target="_blank">Nuclear dynamics and repetitive DNA
in tissue homeostasis lab</a> 

<p>Life-long tissue homeostasis requires maintained function of differentiated cell types as well as progenitor cells, which ensure tissue self-renewal. We are interested in uncovering the roles that repetitive DNA sequences, including transposable elements (TEs), play in somatic tissues and their different cell-types. The impact of TEs on the soma is an active area of research. Although most TE sequences remain silenced in somatic cells, some are actively transcribed and a fraction may retain their ability to mobilize through copy-and-paste mechanisms. Our projects aim to better understand: 1- How are TEs, or other repetitive DNA sequences, controlled in somatic cell types? 2- What is the impact of repetitive DNA on cell function in vivo? 3- What are the long-term consequences of DNA repeat activity at a tissue and organism level? To answer these questions, we are combining developmental and cell biology approaches, with genomics. Our primary focus is on the fly intestinal tissue, a self-renewing epithelium, maintained by a population of multipotent stem cells. Apart from its digestive functions, the tissue is critical for immune and stress responses, and for the organism longevity. 
<p>Our projects combine various experimental methods, such as: genetics, genomics (next generation short- and long-read sequencing), computational biology, imaging, lineage tracing in vivo or longevity studies. 