Head of the <a href = "https://konstantinides-lab.com/" target="_blank">Comparative Developmental Neurobiology lab</a>

<p>I am a group leader at the Institut Jacques Monod in Paris, France. I started my group three years ago and our research is focused on the evolution of neurodevelopmental mechanisms, in an effort to understand how the impressive neuronal diversity is generated over the days or weeks of embryonic development and how these developmental mechanisms have evolved over the millions of years of animal evolution. The questions that we address have been shaped by my prior research experience. I got interested in development as an undergraduate student, when I worked on understanding how silkworms regulate the expression of chorion genes during follicle development. During my PhD, I studied the evolution of regenerative capacity using appendage regeneration as a model the appendage regeneration of an amphipod crustacean, Parhyale hawaiensis. Finally, I got excited by neurobiology during my postdoctoral studies in the lab of Claude Desplan, where I studied the patterning mechanisms that specify neuronal types in Drosophila melanogaster and how neurons acquire their terminal molecular, physiological, and morphological characteristics once they are specified.</p>
<p>In our group, we combine different areas of expertise to tackle our big question: how do complex systems develop and evolve and, in the case of neuronal systems, how do they assemble into functional circuits that drive certain behaviors? We take an integrative approach that includes molecular biology, genetics, modeling, bioinformatics, and genetic tool development.</p>
