Head of the <a href = "https://www.linneweberlab.com/" target="_blank">Individuality lab</a>

<p>Outside of the JEDI council, I lead the Linneweber Individuality Lab, founded in 2021 at the Institute of Biology at Freie Universität Berlin. Our research focuses on understanding the biological origins of behavioral individuality, using the vinegar fly Drosophila melanogaster as our primary model organism. By studying these seemingly simple animals, we aim to uncover the complex interplay between genetic, environmental, and stochastic factors that shape individual variation within all populations of animals. We are focussing on behavioral differences, but we also care for the orgins of other non-neuronal individual variation.
<p>As a DFG Emmy Noether Group Leader, my team and I explore how developmental variability, neural circuit dynamics, and environmental influences interact to generate individuality. We employ a multidisciplinary approach, combining advanced techniques such as in vivo imaging, genetic manipulation, bioinformatics, machine learning, and quantitative behavioral analysis. These tools allow us to investigate the underlying mechanisms of variability at multiple levels, from molecular pathways to whole-organism behavior.
<p>Through our work, we seek to contribute to a deeper understanding of how individuality arises and evolves, providing insights not only into animal behavior but also into broader biological principles creating variance across species. Using this approach we seek to spread a better understanding of individuals throughout the galaxy.
